Rootstock Name Service (RNS) Integration Guide(Hacktivator task) (#414)
rsksmart/devportal: docs/02-developers/06-integrate/03-rns/rns_dApp.md

> ---

Reviewer: Update file name, use `rns-dapp.md` instead of `rns_dApp.md`

sidebar_label: Sample dApp Integration
sidebar_position: 400
title: Sample dApp RNS Integration 
description: RNS Integration Guide into Frontend
tags: [rns, integrate, integration guide, rif, frontend]
---
import Card from '/src/components/Card'

> This guide helps to quickly get started with setting up your environment to use RNS Javascript SDK and also use the sample dApp to test how RNS SDK works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide helps to quickly get started with setting up your environment to use RNS Javascript SDK and also how to use the sample dApp to test how RNS SDK works.
```

## 1. Project Setup

> Before we begin, make sure you have a React app set up. If not, you can create one with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we begin, ensure you have a React app set up. If not, create one with:
```

```bash

> npx create-react-app rns-dApp

Reviewer: ```
npx create-react-app rns-dApp
Need to install the following packages:
create-react-app@5.1.0
Ok to proceed? (y) y
npm WARN deprecated inflight@1.0.6: This module is not supported, and leaks memory. Do not use it. Check out lru-cache if you want a good and tested way to coalesce async requests by a key value, which is much more comprehensive and powerful.
npm WARN deprecated rimraf@2.7.1: Rimraf versions prior to v4 are no longer supported
npm WARN deprecated glob@7.2.3: Glob versions prior to v9 are no longer supported
npm WARN deprecated uid-number@0.0.6: This package is no longer supported.
npm WARN deprecated fstream@1.0.12: This package is no longer supported.
npm WARN deprecated fstream-ignore@1.0.5: This package is no longer supported.
npm WARN deprecated tar@2.2.2: This version of tar is no longer supported, and will not receive security updates. Please upgrade asap.
create-react-app is deprecated.

You can find a list of up-to-date React frameworks on react.dev
For more info see:https://react.dev/link/cra

This error message will only be shown once per install.
Cannot create a project named "rns-dApp" because of npm naming restrictions:

  * name can no longer contain capital letters

Please choose a different project name.
npm notice 
npm notice New major version of npm available! 10.2.4 -> 11.6.2
npm notice Changelog: https://github.com/npm/cli/releases/tag/v11.6.2
npm notice Run npm install -g npm@11.6.2 to update!

```

Reviewer: `npx create-react-app rns-dapp` works

cd rns-dApp
```

> Then install the required dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the required dependencies:
```

```bash
npm install web3 @rsksmart/rns
```

## 2. Import the Required Modules

> Open your main component file and import the following:

Reviewer: index.js? State the file directly

```js
import { useEffect, useState } from "react";
import Web3 from "web3";
import RNS from "@rsksmart/rns";
import { ChainId } from "@rsksmart/rns/types";
```

> ## 3. Initialize RNS

Reviewer: From here on, it is hard to follow along, the related files are not stated as the user progresses with the different code blocks/steps.

Iniatialize the RNS using the [RNS Registry Contract Address](https://github.com/rnsdomains/rns-registry) and the testnet node RPC URL (`https://public-node.testnet.rsk.co`)

setting up all the states need for domain lookups, availability checks, and ownership info.

```js
useEffect(() => {
  const init = async () => {
    try {
      const web3 = new Web3("https://public-node.testnet.rsk.co");

      const rnsInstance = new RNS(web3, {
        networkId: 31, // Testnet (use 30 for Mainnet)
        contractAddresses: {
          registry: "0x7d284aaac6e925aad802a53c0c69efe3764597b8", //RNS Registry Contract Address
        },
      });

      await rnsInstance.compose();
      setRns(rnsInstance);
      console.log("RNS initialized successfully");
    } catch (err) {
      console.error("RNS initialization failed:", err);
      setResult("Failed to initialize RNS: " + err.message);
    }
  };

  init();
}, []);
```

What this does:

> - Connects to the RSK Testnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Connects to the Rootstock Testnet.
```

- Initializes the RNS SDK.

- Loads the internal contracts needed for lookups.

## 4. Domain Lookup Functions

Now, let’s add some functions to handle different RNS operations.

> ### a. Resolve an RSK Address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### a. Resolve a Rootstock Address
```

    setLoading(true);
    const btcAddr = await rns.addr(domain, ChainId.BITCOIN);
    setResult(btcAddr || "No Bitcoin address found for this domain");
  } catch (err) {
    setResult("Error: " + err.message);
  } finally {
    setLoading(false);
  }
};
```

## 5. Check Domain and Subdomain Availability

You can check if a domain or subdomain is available before registering it.

```js
// check domain avaliablity
const handleCheckAvailable = async () => {
  if (!rns) return;
  try {
    setLoading(true);
    const available = await rns.available(domain);
    setResult(
      available ? "Domain is available" : "Domain is already registered"
    );
  } catch (err) {
    setResult("Error: " + err.message);
  } finally {
    setLoading(false);
  }
};

//check subdomain availability
const handleCheckSubdomain = async () => {
  if (!rns) return;
  try {
    setLoading(true);
    const available = await rns.subdomains.available(domain, subdomain);
    setResult(
      available ? "Subdomain is available" : "Subdomain is taken"
    );
  } catch (err) {
    setResult("Error: " + err.message);
  } finally {
    setLoading(false);
  }
};
```

## 6. Reverse Lookup (Get Domain from Address)

> You can also do the reverse—find the RNS name linked to an RSK address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also do the reverse—find the RNS name linked to a Rootstock address.
```

```js
const handleReverse = async () => {
  if (!rns) return;
  try {
    setLoading(true);
    const name = await rns.reverse(address);
    setResult(name || "No reverse record found for this address");
  } catch (err) {
    setResult("Error: " + err.message);
  } finally {
    setLoading(false);
  }
};
```

## 7. Get the Owner of a Domain

This fetches the wallet address that owns a particular RNS domain.

```js
const handleGetOwner = async () => {
  if (!rns) return;
  try {
    setLoading(true);
    await rns.compose();
    const registry = rns.contracts.registry;
    const namehash = await rns.contenthash(domain);
    const domainOwner = await registry.methods.owner(namehash).call();
    setOwner(domainOwner || "No owner found");
    setResult("Owner address retrieved successfully");
  } catch (err) {
    setResult("Error getting owner: " + err.message);
  } finally {
    setLoading(false);
  }
};

> ```

Reviewer: Add a sample of the full code

## 8. User Interface

> Here’s the JSX that creates a simple UI for all the functions you’ve added.

Reviewer: Specify related file in which to use this code

          value={subdomain}
          onChange={(e) => setSubdomain(e.target.value)}
          placeholder="Subdomain (e.g. example)"
          style={{ ...styles.input, flex: 1 }}
        />
        <button onClick={handleCheckSubdomain} style={styles.buttonAlt} disabled={loading}>
          Check Subdomain
        </button>
      </div>

      <button onClick={handleGetOwner} style={styles.buttonWide} disabled={loading}>
        Get Domain Owner
      </button>

      {owner && (
        <div style={styles.resultBox}>
          <strong>Owner:</strong> {owner}
        </div>
      )}

      <hr style={{ margin: "20px 0" }} />

      <input
        type="text"
        value={address}
        onChange={(e) => setAddress(e.target.value)}
        placeholder="Enter address for reverse lookup"
        style={styles.input}
      />
      <button onClick={handleReverse} style={styles.buttonWide} disabled={loading}>
        Reverse Lookup
      </button>

      <div style={styles.resultBox}>{loading ? "Loading..." : result}</div>
    </div>
  </div>
);
```

<Card
  index={1}
  title="RNS Javascript SDK"
  description="You can check out other methods here"
  color="orange"
  icon="rocket"

>   link={{ href: "/developers/integrate/rns/js/", title: "Open docs" }}

Reviewer: No conclusion and ref to working dApp on localhost after following the steps, see the intro sentence at the beginning of the guide, if the goal of this guide is for smart contract integration only, then it should be stated as such:

```
There are two main ways to integrate RNS into your dApp:

- **Frontend integration:**  
  This involves using the [RNS JavaScript SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@rsksmart/rns) directly from your web interface.  
  With a few function calls, you can resolve domains to addresses, check availability, or perform reverse lookups.

- **Smart contract integration:**  
  This approach is used when your contracts need to interact with the RNS registry or resolver directly on-chain.  
  It’s ideal for cases like marketplaces or identity systems that store or verify domain ownership at the contract level.
```
